---
layout: layout
title: Methods
permalink: methods.html
---

<h2 id="alias">alias</h2>
Anytime a user visits your product for the first time, shopalytic will assign them a unique visitor id and store that information in a cookie. The alias method is a way for you to add a new identity to that user. The identity could be an email address or the unique user id assigned by your commerce platform. A user can have many identities, but the identity must be unique and belong to no other user. If you try to assign an alias that belongs to someone else, the event will silently fail.

Here's an example series of events:

- Jon visits your site for the first time. Shopalytic assigns him the visitor id 123456. Every event sent about Jon will be tracked to his visitor id.
- Jon registers for a new account with the email address `jon@example.com`. For the first time Jon has an identity within your commerce platform.
- You call `alias` and set `jon@example.com` immediately after the `account_registration` event. We now add an association saying that visitor id 123456 is the same person as `jon@example.com`.

When Jon signs in on his mobile device or work computer you will call the `identify` method to let us know who he is. Now we are able to persistently track Jon across multiple devices and identify him with an alias that makes sense to you.

The only times you should need to call `alias` is immediately after `account_register` and if the identifier changed in `account_update`. We suggest using a user id generated by your commerce platform whenever available, this usually has a lower chance of changing. The only other good use case for alias is if you come up with another identifier you'd like to add to this customer.

<h2 id="identify">identify</h2>
The `identify` method lets you persistently identify logged in customers across multiple devices (iPhone, iPad, Web, work computer, etc.) and enables you to reference customers by an identifier that makes sense to you and relates back to an identity in your commerce platform.

You can identify a user with any unique piece of information. For example, this could be the user id generated by your commerce platform or the users email address. We suggest using the user id whenever possible, this usually has a lower chance of changing. The identity must be a string and must be unique. If you identify a user with an identifier assigned to a different customer, both users events will be tracked to that one identifier.

`identify` should be called before any other events so we track to the right user.

<h2 id="track">track</h2>
The track method is the method used to send event data to Shopalytic. `track` always take two arguments. The first is an event type, such as "order" or "account_register". The second argument are the properties that describe the event. You can get a full list of the event types and the properties on the [Tracking Events](/events.html) page.
